# Provenance
### An iOS Frontend for multiple emulators



###Why 'Provenance'?

I was looking for a word with a similar meaning to Genesis and came across Provenance:

> prov·e·nance  
> */ˈprävənəns/*  
> **Noun**  
> > 1. The place of origin or earliest known history of something: "a rug of Iranian provenance".  
> > 2. The beginning of something's existence; something's origin.

###Currently Supported Emulators:

- Sega
    - Genesis / Mega Drive
    - Master System
    - MegaCD [See wiki](https://github.com/jasarien/Provenance/wiki/Sega-MegaCD-Instructions)
    - Game Gear
- Nintendo
    - NES
    - SNES
    - Gameboy / Gameboy Color
    - Gameboy Advance

###Features

- Very accurate & full speed emulation
- Stereo sound
- OpenGL based rendering, never drops below 60fps
- Save States
- Battery saves (native game saves, i.e. Sonic 3)
- All current generation iOS devices supported with iOS 8
- Configurable on-screen controls
    - Position them how you like, and adjust their opacity so they don't get in your way
    - iOS game controller support
- "Open In..." support
    - Download a ROM using Mobile Safari and import it into Provenance
- iTunes File Sharing
    - Just drop ROMs into the app from iTunes on your Mac or PC
- Uses OpenVGDB to look up game info and artwork. OpenVGDB is a database maintained by the OpenEmu Team.
- Game library searching

Feel free to suggest/request features using the Issues page.

###Importing ROMs
[See the instructions on the wiki](https://github.com/jasarien/Provenance/wiki/Importing-ROMs)

###Screenshots
[Provenance Screenshots](http://jamesaddyman.com/provenance/screenshots)

###Building Provenance
[See the instructions on the wiki](https://github.com/jasarien/Provenance/wiki/Building-Provenance)

#Attributions

Sega system emulation is provided by [Genesis Plus GX](http://code.google.com/p/genplus-gx/), originally written by Charles Mac Donald, and later improved by Eke-Eke.

NES Emulation is provided by [FCEU](http://www.fceux.com/web/home.html).

SNES emulation is provided by [SNES9x](http://www.snes9x.com).

Gameboy Advance emulation is provided by [Visualboy Advance](http://sourceforge.net/projects/vba/).

Gameboy/Gameboy Color emulation is provided by [Gambatte](http://gambatte.sourceforge.net/).

The specific implementations used in Provenance are based on [OpenEmu](http://openemu.org), [(source)](http://github.com/OpenEmu).

#Provenance License (Simplified BSD)

Copyright 2015 James Addyman (JamSoft). All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are
permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY JAMES ADDYMAN (JAMSOFT) "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL JAMES ADDYMAN (JAMSOFT) OR
CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON
ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING
NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF
ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

The views and conclusions contained in the software and documentation are those of the
authors and should not be interpreted as representing official policies, either expressed
or implied, of James Addyman (JamSoft).

#OpenEmu License

Copyright (c) 2015, OpenEmu Team

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

- Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
- Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
- Neither the name of the OpenEmu Team nor the names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY OpenEmu Team ''AS IS'' AND ANY
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL OpenEmu Team BE LIABLE FOR ANY
DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
(INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND
ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
