.TH YABAUSE 1 "November 22, 2014" "yabause-0.9.14"
.SH NAME
yabause \- Yet Another Buggy And Uncomplete Saturn Emulator
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B yabause
[ \fB\-afh\fP ] [ \fB\-b <BIOS>\fP | \fB\-nb\fP ] [ \fB\-c <CDROM>\fP | \fB\-i <ISO>\fP ] [ \fB-ns\fP ]
[ \fB\-\-autoframeskip=0|1\fP ]
[ \fB\-\-autoload=<SLOT>\fP ]
[ \fB\-\-autostart\fP ]
[ \fB\-\-binary=<BINARY>[:<ADDRESS>]\fP ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBYabause\fP is a Sega Saturn emulator. \fBYabause\fP needs either a bios file, a game or a binary to run.
Games can be loaded from a real cd device or from dump files.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-\-autoframeskip
Enable or disable auto frame skipping / limiting.
.TP
.BI \-\-autoload
Automatically start emulation and load a savestate.
.TP
.BI \-a
.TP
.BI \-\-autostart
Automatically start emulation.
.TP
.BI \-b
.TP
.BI \-\-bios
Choose a bios file.
.TP
.BI \-c
.TP
.BI \-\-cdrom
Choose the cdrom device.
.TP
.BI \-\-binary
Use a binary file. Content of the file will be loaded to 0x06004000 and execution will start from that address.
You can provide an alternative address to load and run the binary with the \-\-binary=<BINARY>:<ADDRESS> syntax.
When using this option, emulation is automatically started and you shouldn't use it in conjunction with \-a.
This option is intended for homebrew developers wanting to test their programs in \fBYabause\fP.
.TP
.BI \-f
.TP
.BI \-\-fullscreen
Start the emulator in fullscreen.
.TP
.BI \-i
.TP
.BI \-\-iso
Choose a dump file. The dump can be either in iso or bin/cue file format.
.TP
.BI \-nb
.TP
.BI \-\-no\-bios
Use the emulated bios.
.TP
.BI \-ns
.TP
.BI \-\-no\-sound
Turns sound off. This option actually set the sound core to the dummy one.
.SH FILES
.TP
\fB<BINARY>\fR
An executable for the Saturn, usually with a BIN extension.
.TP
\fB<BIOS>\fR
A Saturn ROM BIOS image.
.TP
\fB<CDROM>\fR
A CDROM device file.
.TP
\fB<ISO>\fR
A Saturn game dump.
.SH AUTHORS
Copyright (c) 2002-2013 Yabause Team

Web:	http://yabause.org

Please don't ask for roms, bios files or any other
copyrighted stuff.
.SH COPYRIGHT
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as 
published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of 
the License, or (at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be
useful,but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied
warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
License along with this program; if not, write to the Free
Software Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor,
Boston, MA 02110-1301  USA

See the GNU General Public License details in COPYING.
